Now we'll start workshop four where we'll hook
the database to your Catholic app so you'll
end up storing all your user information, story
information, and comment information in MongoDB. We good?
Okay. Okay. So now we're going to move
on to the live coding portion. So get
ready for some, workshopping. So in today's workshop,
we're going to hook our back end server
with our Mongo database. We're gonna create models
for our comments and stories, and then we're
gonna modify our API endpoints to use the
Mongoose models that we create. If you want
sample code to follow along with, you can
go to weblep.is/mongo, and it should have a
lot of helpful code snippets there to to
get you started. Okay. So first, we're gonna
connect our app to MongoDB using Mongoose. So
you guys should have already gotten your connection
string in homework zero, but if you need
some help or, like, with getting it right
now, feel free to hop on the queue
and a staff can come help you. To
start, we're gonna git fetch, git reset dash
dash hard, and git checkout w four starter.
Okay. Cool. So if you guys were oh,
sorry. It's actually homework two. But if you
guys remember your SRV, which is this long
fancy string that should start with MongoDB plus
SRV. So you wanna get that, and then
you wanna copy and paste it into server
dot j s. So if you go to
MongoDB, and you should have, like, a database
for your project or whatever, you can click
this connect new, and then you should get
your connection string right here. Yeah. So I'll
give you some time to find that. And
then once you have that, you just wanna
go to server.js and under oops. If we
go to this const mongo connection URL, where
it says process.env.mongo URL, you wanna copy and
paste your connection string into there and replace
this. So I'm gonna copy mine. Key. And
let's paste that right here. Okay. Raise your
hand if you need more time with this
step. Okay. Cool. Everyone's good. Oh. Oh. Oh,
okay. Okay. Yeah. If you're having issues, make
sure you delete brackets with database underscore password
and put your own password there. And if
it's still not working for you, feel free
to go to slide 54 and use the
our connection string if yours is not set
up yet. You just won't be able to
see things that are posted in the database,
but it should work for following along with
the workshop. Yeah. Okay. So now if you
do npm install and npm start, you should
see a message that says server running on
port 3,000 and connected to MongoDB. So Oh,
wait. I have another terminal running. Oops. Yeah.
There we go. So you should see this
server running on port 2,000 connected to MongoDB
message. Hopefully, everyone is able to see that.
Okay. Cool. So now on to the actual
workshop. So first thing we're gonna do is
create comment and story models. Feel free to
get check out w four starter if you
haven't already. So if you remember the MongoDB
hierarchy that Sophie was talking about earlier, we
have our overarching Catbook database. And within that
database, we should have two collections, the stories
collection and the comments collection. And within each
collection in our database, then we have our
individual documents, which are like the stories and
the comments that people will be posting. Each
of these documents should have fields like ID,
content, etcetera. So in models.js, we want to
or sorry. In the models directory, we wanna
open story.js. So you wanna open the story.js
file. And what we're going to do is
we're going to try to enforce a structure
to our stories that get posted. We want
each story to have a creator name, content,
and we want both of these fields to
be type string. So if you remember from
what Sophie just talked about, the way that
we can accomplish this is by using schemas
and mongoose models. So if you go to
the weblep.is/mongo, you can see both of these,
which are helpful snippets for creating schemas and
models. Remember that schemas are to help us
structure our MongoDB documents, and models are going
to be constructors that we define from our
schema to apply it to our collection. So
let's start by importing mongoose. So if you
go to the to do step zero, we
wanna just type this in. So const mongoose
equals require. And this is just importing in
our mongoose. Okay. So now let's write a
model for our stories. So what we're going
to do is we're going to define a
new story schema for the database. And then
we want to add in the two fields
that we talked about earlier. So creator name,
which is type string, and also content, which
is also type string. Raise your hand if
you need more time with this step. Okay.
I'll give, like, a couple more seconds. Okay.
Cool. And then the last step is exporting
our model. Right? So we're gonna use module
dot exports. And then we're just gonna pass
in our story model. So now you guys
should be all set. You just wrote a
mongoose model for the story and you exported
it. So now we basically want to do
the exact same thing for comments. Right? Because
remember we had our stories and our comments
collection. So you wanna repeat everything we just
did for comments. So open up comment dot
j s under models, and you can see
the steps are the exact same. So now
try to follow the steps that we just
did, importing Mongoose, creating the schema for comments,
and then also exporting it using module dot
exports. I'll give you guys, like, two minutes
to try it out on your own. And
feel free to join queue if you have
any questions or need help. Yeah. As a
hint, one of the differences with comment is
just that we need a parent field. So
this is like one additional field that you
should add into your schema. Okay. So I'm
gonna be writing the solution now. So feel
free like, don't look at it if you
don't want to see it. Okay. So the
solution is on the screen now. If you
wanna take a look and make sure that
yours matches up with it, everything looks good.
It's also here on the slides. So just
make sure that everything looks good. If you
have any questions, feel free to hop on
the questions doc or join the queue. Okay.
So now we're gonna be moving on to
step one. So here, we're going to be
linking the back end with our newly implemented
MongoDB database. Feel free to git reset dash
dash hard, git checkout w four step one
to get caught up. And also, in server.js,
your connection string will probably have disappeared. So
you're going to need to recopy and paste
it probably into where we pasted it before.
So here, like, you're going to probably need
to put it back. Okay. So you guys
wanna open up API.js from the server directory.
And what we're going to do is we're
going to access the Mongoose models that we
just created. So within API.JS, you want to
go to the part where it says to
do step one, get all the stories from
the database, and send response back to the
client. Okay. So what we're gonna do is
we're going to try to import the story
model. So here oops. Sorry. This is up
here. Oops. Yeah. So I should already be
there. But what we're gonna do is we're
gonna import the comment model now. So you
guys can follow the same format that was
used to import the story model, and you
just wanna do the exact same thing with
the comment model that you just wrote. So
I'll give you guys like one second or
like a couple seconds to do that. So
like right here, just wanna import the comment
model. Okay. Cool. Raise your hand if you
need more time with that. I think it
should be pretty chill. Yeah. So you guys
just wanna follow the exact same format that
you use for story. Const comment equals require.
And this is the require function allows us
to use the models that we just exported
in the previous step. Okay. So now for
part two, we are going to try to
get all the stories via our router.get API
endpoint. This endpoint will ask the server to
return all of the stories that we currently
have saved in the database. Now, how can
we get all the stories that we have
saved? Oh, wait. I don't want show this.
Try to find the relevant code in weblab.
Is slash by yourselves first, and see if
you can find what function we would use
to return all of the stories in the
database. You guys like one minute. Okay. So
hopefully, you guys had enough time to try
to find the relevant code yourself, but here's
the solution for get stories. So basically, what
this does is we're using the dot find
function, and this is going to send a
mongoose query to find all of the documents
in our database, and the dot find function
will return a promise. So we're going to
use the dot then to handle the asynchronous
request. And if our query is successful and
we are able to find documents in our
database, what's gonna happen is the stories array
is now going to contain all of the
matching documents that we just found in our
database. And then we want to send the
array of stories to our client, so we're
going to do res dot send stories. Okay.
So now let's try implementing post slash story.
So we're gonna try creating a new story
document and inputting it into our collection. So
we're still in API.JS, and now we're under
the router dot post endpoint. And what we're
gonna do is we're going to try to
create a new story document and put it
into the collection using our model. So where
do we get the content for posting our
story? Basically, we have this content parameter that
we want to access. And in order to
access that, we can go to new post
input dot j s x. So you can
take a look at it under components. So
here, you should be able to see, like,
we have this const as story, and the
const body has content with value. So this
is the content we're going to try to
be accessing in our API endpoint. So we
can use the rec dot body dot content
to get this content from our new post
input dot JSX. Let's do a quick recap
of GET versus POST request first, though. So
remember that GET requests are what we use
to request data from our server. And in
our GET request, we should have our query
parameters in the URL. And this data is
also saved in the browser heading. But for
POST request, this is sending data from the
server back to the client. And you can
see here, oops, in the body, we have
the data that we are sending. And this
data does not persist and is not stored
on the browser head. So for get request,
we want to use rec dot query because
this is going to contain the query parameters
of our request. So for example, if we
have this URL, sample.com, and we're querying for
this, our rec dot query would contain the
information Sophie and the value yay. And then
for post request, we want to use rec.body,
and this is going to send anything that's
contained inside the request body. So if we
send a post, if we want to send
a post to sample.com with the body of
Sophie Yeh, rec dot body would contain this
Sophie Yeh. So yeah. Okay. So now that
we've reviewed get and post request, how would
we implement the slash story endpoint if we
want to create a new story and post
this? Yeah. So try to find the relevant
code in weblab. Is slash mongo once more,
But we're gonna go over it. So, basically,
what we want to do is first, we're
going to create a new story object. And
we're gonna have creator name. And you guys
probably will need to create a variable, like
my name or something, and put your own
name there. And then for content, remember we
just talked about how we're gonna access the
content for a post request is we're gonna
use rec dot body dot content. And the
content is coming from the new post input
dot JSX file. And then now that we've
created that, we want to save our stories.
So let's do new story dot save. Okay.
Does anyone need a minute to get caught
up with that? Okay. Give, like, a couple
of seconds. Okay. So now we have just
successfully created a new story document and put
it into our collection. Let's try test posting
a story. So in one terminal, you want
to run npm install and then npm start.
And then in another terminal, you want to
do npm run dev, and then we can
check our local host. Oh. What happened? Is
it comments? Okay. So now you should be
able to test post a story and see
it on the feed page. Does anyone need
more time with this? Okay. Cool. Okay. So
now for step two, we're gonna do the
thing the exact same thing we just did,
except we're gonna repeat it for comments. So
we're just linking our comments back end with
MongoDB. So if you wanna get caught up,
you can get check out w four step
two, and then make sure to recopy and
paste your connection string if it disappeared in
server dot j s. Okay. So remember that
in the get request, we included the parent
stories ID prop when we made the get
request from the front end. And k. Hopefully,
everyone is caught up. But if you remember
in our get request, we included the parent
stories ID prop. So we want to access
this ID prop from the back end. And
so you guys can try and think for
yourselves for, like, a second about how we
would do this. And as a hint, we're
going to use the rec again. Okay. So
this time, we're going to be using rec.query.parent,
right, because we are trying to access the
ID prop from the parent field. Okay. So
now it's your turn. So try to implement
get, the get endpoint in API dot j
s. So if you go to step two,
you should see router dot get slash comment.
And what you want to do is do
the to do step two, where you want
to input the parent parameter. Basically, we're trying
to find the comments that match the parent
parameter. So I'll give you guys some time
to try that out for yourselves. Okay. Raise
your hand if you'd like a little more
time to try this out. Okay. Okay. So
just to kinda, like, recap and clarify where
we are at, what we just did is
we hooked up our back end to MongoDB
for the stories model. Right? We modified our
router dot get and router dot post endpoints
for the story to find all of the
stories in our database and then send an
array of stories back to the front end.
And then for post, we created a new
story document, input it into our collection, and
then we wanted to save that within our
database. We're doing the exact same thing for
comments now, except this time with comments, we
want to only return the documents in our
database that match the parent story. So we're
not gonna have an empty query parameter like
we did for stories. For story.find, it was
just empty. Right? For comments, we want to
put something into our query parameters, so we're
only returning the comments that match their parent's
story. So what we wanna do is we're
just gonna put parent. And we're gonna use
rec dot query dot parent. Because if you
remember, this is for get requests. Right? So
now it's only going to find the comments
in our database that match this rec dot
query dot parent parameter. Give everyone a minute
to copy that down. Okay. Now it's your
turn. So you're going to oh, wait. Sorry.
This is yeah. But here's the solution also
if you need it. Okay. So now we're
going to try and do the exact same
thing we did for comments that we did
for stories, where we want to edit the
router dot post and point as well for
comments. Basically, we're going to create a new
comment document and put it into the collection
just like we did before. So you can
use the story, what we just wrote for
story to as a reference for what we're
going to try to do with comment. So
remember that we're getting the content from new
put new post input .j s x. And
now we just wanna save a new comment
into our database, but we want it to
contain the parent and the content from the
request. So you're going to need to modify
the story endpoint a little bit, or modify
what we did in the story endpoint a
little bit. But check out weblab.is/mongo if you
need help. And I'll be putting the solution
on the screen, but feel free to not
look at it and try it for yourself
first. Okay. So hopefully, guys, we're able to
try creating a new comment document. So we
just followed the exact same format that we
did for the new story new story document,
except this time, we have an extra field.
Right? We have the parent field where we're
gonna do rec dot body dot parent. Because
remember, this is a post request. We wanna
use rec dot body, and we're accessing the
information, which is the ID that was passed
as a prop to the parent parameter. And
the rest is the same. So you have
content rec dot body dot content. And so
this is creating a new comment document, but
now we want to insert that into our
collection. So we're gonna do new comment dot
save. And then dot then, right, because remember
the save will also return a promise. And
then res dot send will send our comments
array to our collection. Cool. So now we
have just successfully created a new comment document
and saved it to our comments collection. So
here's the solution. Feel free to copy that
down to make sure you're caught up. If
you could put on your finger oh, I
think there's a question. Yes. Oh, sorry. This
this is common. That's my bad. Yeah. It
should be common. I'm sorry. Yes. It is
common. Good catch. Thank you. Yeah. Could people
show on their fingers, like, how many more
minutes they think they need? Two? Okay. Two
minutes. Oh, okay. Cool. Then let's So now
we're going to try test posting a comment.
So you just wanna do the same thing
we did before, right, and go to your
local host. And now you should be able
to post a comment, and it should you
should see the comment as well. So I'll
give people some time to play around with
it. Yeah. And just make sure that everything
is working good. Okay. Hopefully, you guys got
to try out test posting comments. But now,
we are basically done. So you just wanna
git reset dash dash hard, git checkout w
four complete for any of the code snippets
that you might have missed. And what we
can do is we can actually navigate to
our MongoDB. And basically, inside of your database
that you created, you should be able to
see the comments and the stories. So if
we go to collections, and then we look
at the comments collection, notice these are all
of the comments that I just test posted.
Right? So it has the content, it has
the parent parameter with the type string, which
represents the parent ID. And then if we
go to the stories collection, we can see
the story that I just posted. It has
a creator name, and it has content. So
you guys should be able to navigate to
your own MongoDB and go to the cluster
for the for the database that you created
and be able to see all these collections
of stories and comments that you just test
posted. So it's pretty cool, and this is
a good way to, like, debug in your
own application because you can make sure that
the information is being sent to the database
and being stored there accordingly. So if you
don't see your like, the documents populating the
collection, that means that something is wrong with
sending the information to your database. Okay. So
just to recap what we accomplished today, we
learned how to understand database structure, schemas, and
models, and we're also able to hook our
MongoDB instances to our app. We interacted with
our database using our API endpoints, and then
we're able to use those endpoints to also
display the information from our database on our
front end. That's it. Okay. So if you
want more readings or documentation, feel free to
check out these links on the slides for
today's lecture, and fill out weblab.is/ feedback to
give me and Sophie feedback. We would very
much appreciate. Yeah. We'll take one to two
minutes to do that. And then once you're
done filling out the feedback form, feel free
to come down to the stage because we're
gonna do a limbo challenge for a bio
break today.